---
description: How to play around VPK without messing up everything
---

# 2. How to backup, extract & repack

## How to backup & extract VPK's properly ?

When you are about to extract VPK files, you need a directory where files will be extracted from the selected VPK. This folder **should not** be inside your game directory. I would recommend you to create a folder with an easy name like `Titanfall 2 modding` in this path:

```text
C:\Users\YourSessionName\Documents
>Result
C:\Users\YourSessionName\Documents\Titanfall 2 modding
```

Once you have created this folder I would recommend to create a subfolder called `backup` dedicated for, guess what.. backups. \(Yey!\)

```text
C:\Users\YourSessionName\Documents\Titanfall 2 Modding\backup
```

Open the Titanfall VPK Tool and press `CTRL+O`. Navigate to your game folder and open the right file \(based on the guide you are reading\). Once you loaded the VPK in the tool, click on the menu icon called _`Extract All`_. I personally put thoose files in a folder with the same name as the extracted VPK, way easier to manage when you extract files from different VPK's.

After the extraction is complete, open the folder where you extracted your files and delete the _`extracted_logs`_ folder.

**Only open VPK files from the game directory. If you try to open VPK files from your backup folder, this will not work !**

## **How to repack VPK files properly ?**

Open the Titanfall VPK Tool and you have to open the repacker tool, you have 2 way to do that, click on the _`Repack VPK`_ icon, or go in _`Tools > Repacker`_. Once the tool opened, give as first directory your extracted folder

> e.g. C:\Users\YourSessionName\Documents\Titanfall\_2\_modding\Extracted\englishclient\_mp\_common.bsp.pak000\_dir.vpk

Then the second directory to give is your ouput, mean where repack file will go. I would recommend that to be simple

> C:\Users\YourSessionName\Documents\Titanfall 2 modding\Repack\

Leave the VPK file name as is, and then click _`Build VPK`_. Once the PVK file have been built, navigate to their location. You will find two files named _`pak000_000.vpk`_ _`pack000_dir.vpk`_. Before moving thoose 2 files into your game directory, they have to be renamed. In each guide, you have to backup 2 files, their name have to be pasted on the 2 new files. You have to consider _`_dir`_ in the name, that would indicate you which file get the right name. \(Yeah I know, wreid. Let me show you an example !\)

**e.g.**

Rename pak000\_000.vpk _to_ **client\_mp\_common.bsp.pak000\_000.vpk**

Rename pak000\_dir.vpk _to_ **englishclient\_mp\_common.bsp.pak000\_dir.vpk**

## **VPK rename / move batch script**

\*\*\*\*

Bored of renaming / moving VPK files back to game directory ? There is a little batch script you can use !

```text
ren "pak000_000.vpk" "client_mp_common.bsp.pak000_000.vpk"
ren "pak000_dir.vpk" "englishclient_mp_common.bsp.pak000_dir.vpk"
move "client_mp_common.bsp.pak000_000.vpk" "OriginGame\Titanfall2\vpk\client_mp_common.bsp.pak000_000.vpk"
move "englishclient_mp_common.bsp.pak000_dir.vpk" "OriginGame\Titanfall2\vpk\englishclient_mp_common.bsp.pak000_dir.vpk"
```

That's the script for _`englishclient_mp_common.bsp.pak000_dir.vpk`_, it can be adapted to any other VPK you edit quite often. **Don't forget to add correctly the game directory by replacing**_`OriginGame`_ with e.g.

> C:\ProgramFile\Origin\Titanfall2\vpk\

